>> So the next thing that we wanna do
here is let's figure out how to get these
on the homepage, right?
Let's make a list of sites, or have
recent episodes now they're over 200, so
we probably don't wanna show them all.
So let's show a subset instead.
And to do that, what we can do is we can
actually just dive right into this query.
We don't have to make another one.
We can just go in and
just start adding stuff.
So we can do all sanity episode.
And then, in here we can take some of
these things that we already had before,
right?
So actually, why don't we just
build this out in graphical?
Why write it by hand
when we can copy paste?
So I want to filter where the YouTube ID
does not equal norm, right?
So here we are, not equal I want to
get the date by order of descending,
and then I also wanna
limit to the latest 20.
So only 20 episodes, and then I'm going to
pull out the ID I don't need,
do I need the slug?
I want the ID for sure.
I want the title.
I want the guest name so
that I can show who was on the show.
And then I want the Gatsby path.
Okay, so this one is kinda cool.
This is a little bit of a magical
thing that Gatsby does.
And I believe I need to
refresh the page to get it.
When you use the the file path name,
it's not always predictable
what was used to access it.
Am I building this from the slug?
And if I do, does it know that it was
in a folder and those sorts of things?
So what Gatsby does is actually gives
you the ability to just query whatever
the path was that it generated.
Where's this?
Wait right.
You have to actually put in
the file path that was generated.
So we used sanityepisode.slug
Current Right.
So what we're saying is Gatsby,
give me whatever the path would be for
this file name.
And then when I run it,
it will give me the actual path to use so
that we can generate those slugs.
So that way we're not trying to like
do logic in two places Gatsby is
generating files and
figuring out paths using one algorithm and
I'm doing my best guess at emulating
whatever Gatsby's doing under the hood.
Now get away from that, instead, you can
just use this same flow here of generating
that Gatsby path based on what happened.
So with this, if I run this,
now we get all of those files.
And I'm gonna skip the outer query and
just get this interior part because
we can drop that right in here.
And now, we are pulling in our
episodes alongside our MDX and
down here, I can just grab them out.
Episodes equals data.allsanity.nodes.
And what I mean by all sanity
is all sanity episode, right?
Then, come right down to the bottom here.
And we can just write some
markup to lay it out.
So let's add an H2 and
we'll say latest episodes
of Learn with Jason.
And underneath that we'll
do another unordered list.
And we'll take each episode,
map through it.
And we don't even need the curlies,
we can just make this into
a One of those dailies,
and just implicitly return our markup,
so that's gonna be an LI.
And because we're iterating
we need to give it a key.
So we'll do episode ID.
That's why it's always a kind
of a nice flow to quit helping.
My God, do you see this?
Stop it ID, thank you.
It's because I spelled it wrong.
That's episode ID.
Good, okay, so we're putting
in the episode ID as the key.
Then we are gonna use the Gatsby link And
we want to link to episode Gatsby path.
And this is nice because otherwise,
if we didn't have this Gatsby path,
we'd have to do a global search to say,
okay we actually changed our minds.
They're not in the episode folder anymore
we moved them into the top level so
look for everywhere in the site
that we have the URL generation and
make sure that you update these.
So, it's a minor thing,
that board does it add up.
So then let's get the episode.title and
we'll say with the episode.guest and
I wanna make sure that the guest exists.
Guests are always returned as an array
because when I designed the sanity scheme,
I made bad choices.
But so that's how we get to it.
This is optional chaining to make sure
that if there is not a guest set,
it doesn't cause the page to break.
And then underneath this unordered list,
we can just make a link.
We'll say go watch let's
learn to Jason.Dev.
And we'll say watch all
episodes of learn with Jason.
Okay, so having done this now what we
get if we go to the homepage Is we
get a listing of the latest 20
episodes and then a link to the site.
So we can get into one of these,
all right?
Come back out here, get into one of these.
And then if we link through, it's gonna
take us over to learn with Jason site,
or we can click over to YouTube and
watch on YouTube, right?
So this is a, pretty quickly and
with fairly minimal
custom code like having to
get into the magic stuff,
we were able to build a listing
of our latest things.
And this is one of those things that
as developers, when we are working on.
Getting our portfolios out there or
blogging or keeping track of like for
me something I've struggled with is
workshops like these when I give
conference talks,
I store that information somewhere.
I'll put it on Airtable
is one place I've tried.
I'll put it on a marked
down unordered list.
I'll put it in somewhere like poly work,
right?
And when I do that I then want
to show it on my website.
So I tell myself yeah, I'm gonna remember
to update my website every month or so.
And then I don't for 18 to 24 months.
And then someone will be like, hey,
your website super out of date and
then I'll feel guilty about it for
another 18 to 24 months before I
finally get around to fixing it.
So, with this sort of approach
like with this quickly,
being able to pull in data from
different places, the nice thing is,
is that every time the Gatsby site builds
and you could theoretically say I want
my Gatsby site to rebuild every day,
every week, something like that.
It's gonna pull the latest data.
I never have to look at this site again.
It's always going to pull
the latest from learn with Jason.
So if I made my portfolio site pulling
from the learn with Jason sanity and
pulling from my,
I don't know whatever else I'm using.
I could have it automatically
build every week or so and
it would I would always show
up to date information and
I personally would never
have to touch it again.
Which is a pretty nice way to manage these
sites that we know were important, but
that it's hard to make the time to go and
maintain.
And again, by getting all of this
plumbing work out of the way by getting
the cognitive overhead of having
to write all the market by hand or
deal with bespoke data types or
any of those sorts of things.
I can just focus that limited maintenance
time that I have on actually writing that
blog post that I've been
promising somebody for a year.
Or actually updating my bio,
instead of trying to
figure out why the site won't build, so
that I can eventually update my bio.
There's so many things that get in
the way of us actually producing.
And one of the ways that it gets
described as a term called Yak shaving,
if you've never heard it,
which is you wanna do one task.
But before you can do that task,
you have to do a whole bunch of other
tasks that unblock that first task.
I like Gatsby because it removes
a lot of that Yak shaving.
I don't have to do a bunch of cleanup or
special stuff.
I can just Build the thing, right?
That to me is one of the reasons that you
would want to use a tool like Gatsby is
if you are not necessarily interested in
tinkering with the code of your website.
If you're interested in producing things
on your website you wanna publish.
That's a good reason to use Gatsby.
Okay, I mean with that,
I think we're ready to deploy.
Does anybody have questions
about loading in third party
data before we move on to deployment?
>> If I will use for example,
the Sunny tie for example or
Shopify for grabbing the data and
use it into Gatsby.
So if I will add new posts, for
example, from Shopify,
the data will the automatically in
Gatsby or I have to do something?
>> You would use something
called a sanity web hook when
you set up content,
there are easy ways to do this.
So here there's a web hooks tab under
your your settings and what I can do
is I can set it so that whenever something
changes, it will trigger a build.
So whenever the production
data set changes,
it sends a post to this web hook that
will cause the the site to rebuild.
So WordPress and sanity and
a lot of CMSs have some kind
of web hook support like that.
That would be the way that you would do
that if they don't have web hook support.
What you would be looking for
instead is some kind of a cron job where
you would just rebuild the site every day.